A client and a server communicate with each other.
How do they communicate?
Well, the client starts off by making a request.
The server receives that request and responds.
In this lesson, you will understand the client server model.
A client makes a request.
A client will make an HTTP request via the internet.
An example of a client is your browser like Google, Chrome, Safari, Firefox, and from your browser
you can make requests via the internet.
Now let's talk about the physical server.
And this is the computer, the machine that receives your request.
A client makes an HTTP request via the internet.
A physical server that lives on the other side of the world receives your request.
Now an HTTP server is the software that actually processes your request.
Spring boot applications have an embedded HTTP server.
The HTTP server inside of a spring boot app is what processes a request.
So if we go through the process again, the client makes a request.
When a client makes a request, a computer, a physical server on the other side of the world picks
it up.
And the physical server forwards it to the HTTP server inside of your spring boot application.
The Spring Boot application prepares a response.
And once the response is ready, the HTTP server sends it back to the client.
Their response populates the client's web page.
Now what is an IP address?
An IP address is a sequence of numbers that identifies a computer.
There are millions of computers and every computer has a unique IP address.
The client's request needs to include an IP address because it's the IP address that identifies the
server they want to access.
The physical server that matches the address picks up the request.
The port tells the physical server where to forward the request.
A physical server can have over 65,000 ports.
The HTTP server listens for requests on one of them.
When a client makes a request, it needs to specify an IP address and a port.
The IP address identifies the physical server.
And the port number tells the physical server where to forward the request.
In this case, the server forwards the request to port 8080.
The HTTP server embedded in your Spring Boot app happens to be listening for requests on that very same
port.
Port 8080.
It gets the request and it sends back a response.
Okay.
Let's look at the client server model in action.
I'm going to go to my browser and I'm going to make a request that specifies the following address and
ports.
And we get Google.
I made a request that specifies an IP address and a port.
The IP address belongs to one of the servers from Google.
The request was forwarded to Port 80.
An HTTP server.
Listening on that port received our request and sent back a response.
The response is HTML that populates the browser.
It's worth noting that in real life, nobody ever writes the full address.
We write URLs like Google.com, and behind the scenes a DNS server matches the URL to an address.
In this lesson you learned about the client server model.
When a client makes a request, it specifies an IP address and a port.
The IP address identifies a physical server.
The port number tells the physical server where to forward the request.
In this case, the server forwards the request to Port 880.
The HTTP server embedded in some spring boot app happens to be listening for requests on Port 88.
It gets the request and it sends back a response.